Quizzify
Just Because It’s Healthcare Doesn’t Mean It’s Good for You

Why Quizzify?
Management Team
In the Founders’ Own Words
Quizzify Pricing and Guarantees
Quizzify vs. Wellness
Here’s the Beef
The Quizzify Questions
Download the sample
Speedbumps
For Brokers’ Eyes Only
Oh, the Places You’ll Go
Oh, the Places You’ll Go
Integrating Other HR Programs
Customization
Implementation
	Communications
	Implementation
	The “Big Bang” Implementation
	
Reporting 
General
Reporting on…Engagement (Seriously?)
FAQs


Why Quizzify?  The Founders Explain
We are widely known as the first to observe, document, acknowledge and disclose the wellness industry’s abject failure to save money, boost morale, or even simply improve the health of employees, through the conventional “pry, poke, prod and punish” programs that are now in vogue.  Since our findings that wellness has failed are irrefutable (They Said What? displays many examples), on many occasions people would ask us some variation of: “OK, I’m convinced.  So what should we do instead?”  
Until recently, we never had an answer other than “serve healthier foods in the cafeteria and subsidize gym memberships.”  Both are good ideas, but don’t reduce costs noticeably if at all.  (Not to mention that last we checked, many workplaces don’t have cafeterias.)   Eventually it occurred to us that as more and more companies reached the same inevitable conclusion about the futility, cost, and morale damage caused by conventional wellness, alternatives to medicalizing the workplace would be sought.  Why not be the ones to provide it?
We asked ourselves, “What if we could solve all the problems of wellness?  What if we could save money, boost morale, improve health and engage employees…and do it without invading privacy, requiring personal health information, violating clinical guidelines, or shaming people who fail?  And what if we could guarantee each of those things?”
What we came up with is what you are looking at right now.  
Further, it turns out Quizzify can do much, much more than we originally envisioned.   Corporate communications, EEOC lawsuit “inoculation,” workplace challenges, training, benefits design changes…all can be “quizzified” for maximum reach and unique feedback on effectiveness, and most are guaranteed effective.   Contact us or more information.
PS	We were routinely advised not to disclose our role in this company, because many benefits consultants -- having been unable to answer questions we have publicly posed and/or having financial relationships with conventional vendors that they need to “place” -- would not reveal Quizzify’s existence to their clients.  Despite the risk of being blacklisted by some consulting firms, it would be the height of hypocrisy not to be totally transparent ourselves given our exposés of others for opacity.   
Sometimes consulting firms, particularly those with long tenures serving an organization, may forget who they are representing.  It may be up to you to remind them that what you are paying them for is finding you the best solutions.

Quizzify Pricing and Guarantee(s)
Quizzify already has the “Gold Standard” validation from The Validation Institute for its guarantees. This means that it is one of the few population health companies that truly has an impact and captures that impact in its contractual language.   (Many vendors will “guarantee” improvements – but those are ”improvements” that would have happened anyway. Hence they can’t get this “Gold Standard” validation even though it’s free.) 
Including customization, Quizzify will match the price of any “pry, poke, and prod” wellness vendor and will also place 50% of our fees at risk that each of these will improve by 10% or more over your current solution.  Depending on what is most important to you, you as the employer may allocate that 50% amongst the following (25% in Years 1 and 2, 50% in Year 3):
Utilization reduction (by Year 3) for the 20-30 most worthless procedures, diagnostics and interventions that employees undertake.  We can use our list or yours to identify the ones to target.  See “The Quizzify Speedbumps” for details on how we make that happen.
Wellness-Sensitive Medical Event Reduction (by Year 3)  “Medicalizing the workplace” is not necessary or effective in reducing WSMEs.  We will either achieve a 10% reduction or else (if you have a concurrent conventional program in place for half your organization and offer Quizzify to the other hand), we will achieve a greater WSME reduction than your wellness vendor.  
Employee participation or engagement.  You may measure this any way you like, as long as you measure it the same way for both Quizzify and any other vendor you use or have used.  Incentives/penalties need to be the same to use this part of the guarantee.  (Obviously more people will “participate” the higher the amount of money at stake.)
Employee satisfaction.  You may measure this any way you like as long as it is measured the same way vs. any other wellness vendor you use or have used, and as long as non-participants are included in the measurement, and as long as equal amounts of incentives/penalties are compared.  (For example, Quizzify with a $100 incentive can’t be guaranteed to have higher satisfaction than a conventional HRA/screening program with a $500 incentive.)
Further, above and beyond that 50%, consider our unique EEOC “inoculation” guarantee:  If your company offers Quizzify in lieu of or in addition to (on an equal basis where employees can clearly choose one or the other) a conventional “pry, poke and prod” program, we guarantee up to 10x our fees that you will not lose an EEOC lawsuit over wellness.  

Information for Brokers
Attention, Non-Brokers:  Do Not Read This Section.  If you do, you might learn something that other vendors won’t tell you.
There are more than 1000 wellness vendors.  None other than ourselves admits on their websites to paying fees to brokers, but almost all do.  Why is that?  Because brokers represent the customer while getting compensated by the vendor.  Typically the wellness vendor encrypts language under their “For Brokers” section to read something like:  “We partner with you” or convey even more disingenuous attempts to assure brokers that they’ll get paid--while not alerting customers to the uncomfortable reality that “their” broker is being paid by the wellness vendor.  
In sharp contrast, the Quizzify commitment to integrity is to be quite upfront about this:  we pay commissions.  Note: we won’t pay you more than wellness vendors pay.  That’s not how we want to win your allegiance.   We want to win your allegiance the same way we win customers:  by providing the only offering that is USPSTF-compliant, EEOC-inoculated and most importantly guaranteed to be the most fun an employee can have while learning how to become an educated and careful spender of their own and their employer’s health dollars—which is also guaranteed.  
We will, however “partner” with you in the truest sense of the word, by working side-by-side to ensure smooth implementation and ongoing execution of Quizzify.

The Differences between Quizzify and Conventional Wellness
Name an issue with your conventional wellness program, and Quizzify solves it.  And where relevant, we guarantee it.
Issue
Wellness program approach
Quizzify approach and guarantee
Philosophy
Employees don’t get enough medical care, so employers can save money by encouraging, paying, and/or requiring employees to get more.

Many employees get too much medical care already.  The best approach is to help them learn how to pursue healthcare interventions only if and when appropriate

Cost Savings Target

Avoiding wellness-sensitive medical events (WSMEs), which account for less than 4% of your spending, most of which is not avoidable.  (Wellness vendors can’t save money on non-wellness-related medical care at all.)

Reducing waste and overuse, which account for about a third of your spending…and also reducing WSMEs by more than a wellness program would
Perceived invasion of employee privacy by asking intrusive questions, weighing them etc.

Explain that no one is supposed to see the results.
Don’t ask personal questions or weigh people. 
Employees lying on health risk assessments, losing respect for your organization

Conveying to them the importance of telling the truth
Don’t put them in a position where they need to lie
Compliance with official screening guidelines 
Don’t comply with guidelines.  (Vendors need to screen employees annually in order to make a profit.  Guidelines recommend far less frequent screening in order to avoid overdiagnosis and hazardous and expensive overtreatment.)

Teach employees how to comply with guidelines to keep themselves healthy without undue risk of overtreatment..
Requiring and storing personal health information (PHI)
Assure employees their information is safe, spend a lot of money (reflected in their price to you) for HIPAA compliance

Don’t require PHI…or even employee names
Employee resentment and morale damage
Recommend communications plan about how these programs will make employees happy whether they like it or not (ok, we’re exaggerating, but it’s a good line)

Create a program that’s fun and educational, and guarantee engagement and satisfaction
Measure outcomes
Compare participants to non-participants, even though that methodology is proven invalid

Obtain www.validationinstitute.com Gold Standard validation
EEOC lawsuit concerns

None
Fees guaranteed 10-to-1 that you will not lose an EEOC wellness lawsuit
Save money

Not without making up the methodology
Guaranteed, using valid methodology
Reduce the likelihood of overtreatment (30% of American healthcare spending is wasted)
Require screenings and physician visits regardless of need… bragging about how many risk factors they find and leading many employees into the “treatment trap.”
Educate employees that “just because it’s heathcare doesn’t mean it’s good for you.”


Oh, the Places You’ll Go…
Quizzify is endlessly flexible and can become your go-to tool for training, corporate communications, benefit design changes, interdepartmental challenges, and much more.  Consider an application in corporate communications. Once employees get accustomed to the Quizzify tool, you can customize your own questions any time you want to determine whether employees are “getting” what you are trying to tell them, using this simple process:
(1) You send the memo (or however you communicate with them now)
(2) The next day (or week or whenever), you ask them some questions and offer them $1/question less $.25 for each wrong answer.  You can hint that they can look up the answers.  (Since it is not easy to write a good question, we can write them for you.  For a reasonable fee, you just give us the information you want imparted and we’ll turn it into questions.) 
(3) Many employees will indeed “cheat,” just like you suggested and review the communication you sent them – and then answer the questions and collect their money
(4) You will know in close-to-real-time reports how many people answered the questions, and which ones they generally got wrong despite the opportunity to look up the answers
(5) You can then either reword the memo with emphasis on the missed questions, or if most of the people are getting most of the questions, you can declare victory and get on with the rest of your life.
The Quizzify Speedbumps
Answering one or two or three multiple-choice questions on some topics isn’t enough to truly impart the lessons on healthcare spending you’d like your employees to learn.  For the 20-30 most overused, misunderstood, and/or hazardous procedures, diagnostics and therapies –either in your own experience or using our pre-selected list – we provide in-depth tutorials.  We call these “Speedbumps” because we are encouraging employees to slow down before leaping into the treatment trap, in order to learn more about what they are about to do.  For instance, most people who get CT scans are not told that they need to have dye injected through an IV or that they will be exposed to radiation 100 to 1000 times greater than an X-ray.  Most people who sign up for spinal fusions don’t realize that a huge percentage of these painful surgical fixes don’t “take” and/or were not needed in the first place.
The incentive to “Speedbump” these interventions:  Employees who take and pass these quizzes get a (non-transferable) credit towards the intervention in question – should they still want to follow through with it after learning more about it.   Some significant number of employees – once they learn the unvarnished reality about some of these overhyped and underwhelming (but very profitable) proposed interventions – will decide to pass on them altogether, while others will at least be considerably more educated about their pitfalls and potential harms, which should facilitate a faster recovery and return to work.  
We are guaranteeing that by Year 3, the savings from reducing the number of people who follow through with these high-cost, low-value trips into the “treatment trap” will more than offset the cost of the entire Quizzify program, not just cost of the Speedbumps themselves.
Further, because the Quizzify questions and Speedbumps cover wellness topics along with waste and overuse, we also guarantee a reduction in wellness-sensitive medical events by Year 3.  (If you split your population in half, we guarantee that the Quizzify half will actually outperform the wellness half…in the wellness wheelhouse of wellness-sensitive medical events.  That’s how much more compelling education is than “pry, poke and prod” programs.)

Integrating other programs and offerings
As a human resources executive, you are no doubt painfully aware that many of your well-intentioned offerings designed to assist employees go under- or unutilized, largely due to lack of awareness.  On the other hand, you can’t blast-email the information about all of them to all your employees.  That would be information overload by itself, and also competes with all the other information that employees need to absorb from other sources within your organization.   Quizzify offers the opportunity for employees to select the programs they most want to be on the mailing list for, so that they will receive only the information of most value to them.
Just the way employees “opt in” to the Speedbumps of interest to them, they can opt in to the mailing list to be kept apprised of the programs of most interest.   After each set of 20 questions, before they can continue, they select 2-4 topics from the Speedbumps and your own programs (that you customize the summary of).   Employees can’t skip them altogether, nor do we recommend letting them pick all the topics.  The choice of topics and number of topics to be chosen is up to you. 
Example:



The Quizzify Questions
The questions are all over the healthcare map.  They cover children and aging parents. They cover not just how to stay healthy, but also what to do when you’re not.   Far more Americans are harmed by too much healthcare than too little.  Our mantra: just because it’s healthcare doesn’t mean it’s good for you.
And there are no clichés in our questions.  For instance, no lectures on that perennial HRA mainstay:  buckling your seatbelt.  Employees who don’t buckle their seat belts now aren’t going to start because a computer tells them to.   
Nor do we even tell people to stop smoking.  If you have smokers who don’t realize they should stop (or for that matter don’t realize they should buckle their seat belts), you’ve got bigger problems.  Instead, we are much more subtle about it.  For instance, we might ask how much extra a 30-year-old smoker in the 25% tax bracket needs to earn in order to pay for this habit over a lifetime.  It turns out this figure has a lot of digits in it.
Or, we might have a question asking smokers what it means if they see substantial blood in their urine.  (ANS: Probably bladder cancer, one of the lesser-appreciated cancers tied closely to smoking.)   These are more subtle ways of noodging people into smoking cessation than lecturing at them.  And as noted, we can also help smokers find their way to cessation programs or incentives that you offer but that they don’t know about.
The questions are written to be accessible, entertaining, occasionally funny (just occasionally—hey, you try writing an amusing question on bladder cancer)…and educational.  Unlike in wellness where widespread cheating on HRAs encourages a culture of deceit and a lot of laughter at your expense, we want employees to cheat.  Cheating is good.  Because of the way the rewards are designed (typically $1.00 for each right answer less $0.25 for each wrong one), there is an incentive to get the answers right by looking them up.  And that’s how people learn.
The question database is the work of the Quizzify staff, with input from many sources, carefully fact-checked and linked.   If you think you’ve found an error, you can win $10 if we agree (good luck with that) by hitting “contact us/report error.”  More than likely, we’ll send you back an explanation of why our answer is right.  For instance, please do not write to us to tell us that we’re wrong, and salt is bad for you.  Nope.  It turns out that, like shrimp, eggs, tropical oils, and even red meat, salt -- in moderation -- has been rehabilitated.  In fact, insufficient salt poses a health hazard too. Don’t believe us?  Google-news it.  In any event, our answers don’t recommend salting your potato chips.  Rather, we say trying to “focus” on everything means you’ll focus on nothing.  Sugars are way worse for you than salt.  That’s where you need to focus and that’s what you need to minimize. 
The question-writing staff reports to our Grand Inquisitor, Al Lewis.  Al has hosted two trivia-based TV series in the greater Boston market.  He also wrote the bestselling Newsweek Presents the Ultimate Trivia Game, praised by Games Magazine for its “unusually interesting questions.”   And, here he is, May 27, 1987…on:  Jeopardy!   To this day, he and Alex Trebek remain best buddies.  Not.  Actually, Mr. Trebek is prohibited from talking to the contestants on the day of the tapings, a leftover security precaution dating back to the quiz show scandal.  And in any event he is unlikely to remember Al, who didn’t exactly light up the scoreboard.  (The champ – on Al’s right – is Bob Verini.  Bob went on to win the Tournament of Champions both for the year and later for the decade.  And now we are pleased to announce that he is contributing questions to our database.)  
Ah, but enough about us.  Let’s talk about you.  Download a set of (copyrighted) questions right here, and see how you do.  

So now you’ve done it.  You saw for yourself that we grab your attention right away.  You laughed, you learned, and admit it:  you want to play some more.   Imagine that!  A “wellness” (really, health education) program that employees are actually going to like!   

FAQs
Q: You don’t seem to like conventional wellness programs, to put it mildly.  Does that mean we need to terminate our current program to use yours?
A: You can keep your current program.  
(1) Quizzify can be implemented side-by-side with conventional wellness.  Our EEOC Inoculation Guarantee (10x fees at risk) only requires that Quizzify be offered on an equal footing as an option.  
(2) We are strong believers in wellness done for employees instead of to employees.  (We actually invented that phrase, on p. 122 of Cracking Health Costs.)    That means we can assist you in keeping the best components of your current program and swapping out the rest for Quizzify.  
(3) We can even customize questions for you to teach employees about your current wellness program.  
(4) Ironically we would like you to keep your current program as an option so that you can see how much better ours works in real time.  We guarantee it.
Q:  How does our current wellness staff fit in with this model?
A:  They can focus on the part of their job that they’ve wanted to do all along:  helping employees become healthier. They will be thrilled to do wellness for employees instead of to them, trying to coax them into weigh-ins and blood draws that most want nothing to do with.  In terms of the difference in job satisfaction, one is reminded of the East Berlin border guard who, after being told to open the gates, remarked how much better he liked his job now that he could let people through instead of shooting them.
Q: A few of the sample questions were hard.  If we don’t know the answers, how can we expect our employees to know them? 
A: The point is that you and they shouldn’t know the answers already.  Otherwise, why ask the questions?  The idea is to learn the answers.  Having said that, we do review our questions periodically and adjust those which people are both spending a lot of time on and also not getting right.
Q: We see what you are doing to make this material fun and cool, but we think some of these questions and the wording of some others is too edgy for our leadership to accept.  Can we change some working?
A:  We can reword, rework and remove questions as you like.
Q:  How many questions do you have in stock?
A:  Enough for 2 years, and we are writing them faster than you would use them.  We recommend only 100/year.  Too many is too much information all at once.  And in subsequent years we repeat the 30 most incorrectly answered questions from the previous year, along with the new ones.  
Q: We keep raising our penalties and incentives and can’t get participation or engagement to increase.  Do we need to spend more?
A:  No.  We recommend budgeting no more than $100 per employee, out of your current incentive or penalty.   For programs that nobody wants to participate in, increasing the money at stake is the only blunt instrument available.  Quizzify stands on its own merits.  A small amount of money at stake adds to the fun but a large amount would make it too much like conventional wellness—all about getting paid and not about the offering itself.
Q:  Our benefits designs and choices are rather complex.  Can we use Quizzify to determine if employees are “getting” what we are trying to tell them?
A: Of course.  We wouldn’t have listed this as an FAQ if we couldn’t.  
Q:  Speaking of which, has anyone ever actually asked any of these FAQs?
A:  Nope
Implementation and Communications Plans 
Say goodbye to complex “strategic communications plans” where you have to figure out how to position an inherently unpalatable program as fun.  (One wellness vendor even has a “Chief Happy Officer.”)   And you can also say goodbye to fancy interfaces between your system and the vendor’s.   
In sharp contrast to wellness (in which entire webinars are held on the subject of communications plans), the Quizzify communications plan is easy because the program is fun.  Not much convincing is needed.  As you can see from the sample questions, employees can start earning money and having fun in about 30 seconds.  We also have some downloadable notes that you can customize.  You’ll need to determine how much of your incentive/penalty gets allocated to Quizzify (which in term will determine the value of each question), whether you want the Quizzify app turned off during business hours because you think it might be too much fun and hence too distracting, whether you want to create inter-departmental competitions now or later, and probably a few other things specific to your organization.
The aspect of implementation that requires the most planning is: how does employee performance get tracked and financially accounted for?   Since (also in sharp contrast to wellness programs) we don’t require employees to provide names, we have a numbering system for people to keep track of their earnings and get reimbursed for them.  There are several ways of doing this.  First, we can offer vouchers with unique identifiers for every $20 (or $50 or any other number) earned.  They could exchange those vouchers for cash, health savings account deposits, penalty offsets, gift cards or whatever other “currency” you offer.  (We recommend that the first voucher be $20 even if the later ones are greater, in order to encourage the initial use.)  Second, we can provide an electronic interface with a unique identifier.   Finally, you could require employees to provide names to get paid.  This is easiest but will reduce your participation rate.  
Next, you may want to review the questions to see if there are any you don’t want include and/or you’d like us to reword.   We can also do other customization to the front end.
Finally, you may want to add company-specific questions and company-specific program prompts to the “Speedbumps,” so that employees can get on the emailing list for your own programs as well as the Speedbumps themselves.
Big-Bang Implementation
We can come to your site(s) with a professional quiz show host and start things off with a live trivia contest, featuring healthcare questions, company-specific questions and general trivia.  This is guaranteed to be the most fun employees have ever had at an official company event, or at least an official company event where alcohol isn’t served.

  

Customization
We can add, subtract, move/emphasize or change the wording of questions for your employee population.   If your employees are or aren’t at a high education level, we can change the positions of questions to favor novice, intermediate or advanced.   (The questions automatically sort themselves by age, gender and smoking status of course.  We typically advise not sorting by weight because of the importance of not asking employees personal questions, but we can do so if requested.)  We work with you to determine the big health-related issues in your organization.  Back pain/musculoskeletal?  Overutilization?  Imaging? Pharmacy?  Caesarian sections?  Heart attacks?  Obesity?  Did we mention back pain/musculoskeletal? And then we emphasize those categories.

Reporting in General
Our standard reporting is weekly.   You’ll have a “dashboard” that will tell you what percentage of employees are participating, which questions they are answering right and wrong, which Speedbumps they are requesting, and how long they are spending on the app, among other things.   
Our ROI reporting is done annually.  Using the exacting specifications of the Validation Institute (rather than “we reduced risk factors among high-risk participants” or “we reduced your trend” charades), we provide you with a claims extraction template that asks you to pull the claims for the procedures, diagnostics and other items that we have guaranteed to reduce.  We commit to a turnaround time of 5 business days from correct completion of this template.  So theoretically, if you have 90-day claims runout, you could know in early April 2016 how you did in 2015!  Even better, if you use www.healthentic.com as your claims analytics engine you can get a 24-hour turnaround, as they have trued up their data warehouse specifications to match ours.
How exacting are these reporting specifications?  Your own organization will have met the qualifications for the Validation Institute’s “Member-facing organization” Gold Standard validation.  No other vendor can offer that.  

Reporting on…Engagement???  Seriously???
We can also, uniquely, report on that elusive variable, the White Whale of Workplace Wellness:  engagement.
How, you might ask?  We have some questions where the explanation of the right answer is more than 100 words.   Instead of squeezing the entire explanation onto one screen, we have options at the bottom: <More> and <Next Question>.   Since people have already gotten the answer right and already earned their money, there is absolutely no reason to read the rest of the explanation of the answer other than simply being engaged by the Quizzify quiz.  The ratio of people asking for more information to people racing through to the next question is your objective measure of engagement.  No other wellness program can objectively measure engagement.  
Sure, they and we can measure “participation,” but that’s not the same thing.  That’s driven by the money, not the inherent worthiness of the program.  Want to raise your participation rate?  Throw money at a program.  Want to improve your employee engagement?  Give them a program that actually interests them.

Management Team



Al Lewis, Grand Inquisitor
Al Lewis wears multiple hats, both professionally and also to cover his bald spot. As an author, his critically acclaimed category-bestselling book on outcomes measurement, Why Nobody Believes the Numbers, chronicling and exposing the innumeracy of the health management field, was named 2012 healthcare book of the year in Forbes.  Cracking Health Costs:  How to Cut Your Company’s Health Costs and Provide Employees Better Care, released in 2013, was also a trade bestseller.  His 2014  Surviving Workplace Wellness, co-authored with Vik Khanna, has also received great accolades and excerpts have appeared in Harvard Business Review and elsewhere.
As a consultant, he is widely acclaimed for his expertise in population health outcomes and strategy, and in 2013 was named one of the unsung heroes changing health care forever.  As a validator of outcomes, he has been able to obtain Gold Standard certification for many of his clients, and Quizzify, from the GE-Intel Validation Institute.  
He is also one of the population health field’s most acclaimed speakers, as well as a prolific author and interviewee on outcomes economics, having been featured in almost every major lay and healthcare publication. 
Before entering the population health field, he was a partner at Bain & Company.  He holds two degrees from Harvard, where he also taught economics, and his economic policy book was made into a show on the Washington, DC NPR affiliate.
But he still can’t get his kids to clean up their rooms.

